MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/account/index.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---
# Account

To be as accessible as possible **all** features are fully available in the 3 account levels that MonkeyPaste supports. However to monetize this effort and [maintaining your privacy as an upmost precedent](https://www.monkeypaste.com/privacy) MonkeyPaste uses [content *recycling*](#content-recycling) to limit its internal storage based on the account type.

:::tip Linux is free
As a nod to Linux and free-for-use software in general, MonkeyPaste will default to the *'Unlimited'* account plan for **free on all Linux platforms.**
:::

# Capacity Limits

:::tip 
If you have the 'Unlimited' plan, there is no limit to the amount of content you store. MonkeyPaste is optimized to efficiently handle ***millions*** of clips. You can upgrade [here](https://www.monkeypaste.com/upgrade).
:::


## Content Limits

Free and basic accounts content capacity (will be referred to as *content cap*) is limited to some fixed amount so that newly added clips will replace the oldest in a first-in-first-out manner. Where the [oldest](#recycling-details) clip will be moved to the [Trash](docs/collections/trash.md).

:::tip 
Adding a clip to the **Favorites** collection guarantees it will not be recycled.
:::

:::warning 
If your **Favorites** collection has reached the content cap for your account, new content will be **blocked** to ensure it isn't moved to the trash. At that point you will have to delete one yourself or [upgrade your account](https://www.monkeypaste.com/upgrade).
:::

## Trash Limits

Trash capacity works just the same as [content capacity](#content-cap) except when a clip is recycled it will be **permanently deleted**.

## Content Recycling
MonkeyPaste determines how ***old*** a clip is by its most recent activity. Here are some of the activities that will reset a clips age and lower its recycling priority:
- Adding it from the clipboard
- Generating it via an action or analyzer
- Adding or removing it to a [**Tag** collection](docs/collections/tags.md)

# Account Changes

## Upgrading
Your account can be upgraded at anytime and any block or limiting will reflect that change in realtime for you.

## Downgrading
Failure to pay or intentionally downgrading your account will have **NO** effect on the clips you have stored at that time. Only **new** clips will be considered for recycling. What you have collected while paying **will remain intact**. 

# Free Account Setup Suggestions

By default with a free account, this clip capacity stuff can get pretty frustrating but there's a few settings that can help make that restrictions a bit more *user-friendly*.

## On-Demand clipboard listening

By pausing the clipboard listener, *System Tray->Pause* a 🎯 icon will appear in the top-right of the *Pin Tray*. 
<p><img class="figure narrow" src="/docs/build/img/free_acct_sug_bullseye_btn.png" /></p>

:::tip 
You can uncheck *Settings->Preferences->Listen To Clipboard On Startup* to **always** have the clipboard listener be paused.
:::

Now the ***only*** time MonkeyPaste will read the clipboard is when you click the 🎯 button.

## Capacity Hints & Watermarks

- Capacity notifications can be permanently hidden from the 3 dots menu 
- Cap clip watermark warnings can be hidden by checking *Settings->Preferences->Hide Capacity Watermarks*

## Transitioning from free-trial

If you tried the *Unlimited* plan and didn't decide to pay for it (you *dirty dog you*) you'll probably have a fair amount of entries stored up. To keep this monetization method afloat the cap system **ensures things added to your storage with the paid plan aren not lost**. 

So let's say you had 100 clips at the end of trial. Your capacity won't go over 100 after that **but** to prevent giving trial users a **rolling** storage of 100 items, the cap system picks clips **on or after** the **trial ends** which *may* make organizing your stuff pretty confusing, I get that but there's not much that can be done beyond the tip below...

:::tip Fresh slate
You can delete your storage at any time from *Settings->Preferences->System->Delete All Clips*
:::

Commit message:

Finished cleaning/document plugin project, added a repo and added a nuget for common. Worried something funny happen after publishing that nuget though, lots of weird stuff happening now. My loca sql server got corrupted, the app is spoofing local storage and won't reset on restart which its never done and debugging is reall weird I don't know whats wrong...I just wanted to run it to make sure everythings ok after the cleanup and it should be! will check tomorrow.

MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/account/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---
# Account

To be as accessible as possible **all** features are fully available in the 3 account levels that MonkeyPaste supports. However to monetize this effort and [maintaining your privacy as an upmost precedent](https://www.monkeypaste.com/privacy) MonkeyPaste uses [content *recycling*](#content-recycling) to limit its internal storage based on the account type.

:::tip Linux is free
As a nod to Linux and free-for-use software in general, MonkeyPaste will default to the *'Unlimited'* account plan for **free on all Linux platforms.**
:::

# Capacity Limits

:::tip 
If you have the 'Unlimited' plan, there is no limit to the amount of content you store. MonkeyPaste is optimized to efficiently handle ***millions*** of clips. You can upgrade [here](https://www.monkeypaste.com/upgrade).
:::


## Content Limits

Free and basic accounts content capacity (will be referred to as *content cap*) is limited to some fixed amount so that newly added clips will replace the oldest in a first-in-first-out manner. Where the [oldest](#recycling-details) clip will be moved to the [Trash](docs/collections/trash.md).

:::tip 
Adding a clip to the **Favorites** collection guarantees it will not be recycled.
:::

:::warning 
If your **Favorites** collection has reached the content cap for your account, new content will be **blocked** to ensure it isn't moved to the trash. At that point you will have to delete one yourself or [upgrade your account](https://www.monkeypaste.com/upgrade).
:::

## Trash Limits

Trash capacity works just the same as [content capacity](#content-cap) except when a clip is recycled it will be **permanently deleted**.

## Content Recycling
MonkeyPaste determines how ***old*** a clip is by its most recent activity. Here are some of the activities that will reset a clips age and lower its recycling priority:
- Adding it from the clipboard
- Generating it via an action or analyzer
- Adding or removing it to a [**Tag** collection](docs/collections/tags.md)

# Account Changes

## Upgrading
Your account can be upgraded at anytime and any block or limiting will reflect that change in realtime for you.

## Downgrading
Failure to pay or intentionally downgrading your account will have **NO** effect on the clips you have stored at that time. Only **new** clips will be considered for recycling. What you have collected while paying **will remain intact**. 

# Free Account Setup Suggestions

By default with a free account, this clip capacity stuff can get pretty frustrating but there's a few settings that can help make that restrictions a bit more *user-friendly*.

## On-Demand clipboard listening

By pausing the clipboard listener, *System Tray->Pause* a 🎯 icon will appear in the top-right of the *Pin Tray* when there is something **new** on the clipboard. 
<p><img class="figure narrow" src="/docs/build/img/free_acct_sug_bullseye_btn.png" /></p>

:::tip 
You can uncheck *Settings->Preferences->Listen To Clipboard On Startup* to **always** have the clipboard listener be paused.
:::

Now the ***only*** time MonkeyPaste will read the clipboard is when you click the 🎯 button.

## Capacity Hints & Watermarks

- Capacity notifications can be permanently hidden from the 3 dots menu 
- Cap clip watermark warnings can be hidden by checking *Settings->Preferences->Hide Capacity Watermarks*

## Transitioning from free-trial

If you tried the *Unlimited* plan and didn't decide to pay for it (you *dirty dog you*) you'll probably have a fair amount of entries stored up. To keep this monetization method afloat the cap system **ensures things added to your storage with the paid plan aren not lost**. 

So let's say you had 100 clips at the end of trial. Your capacity won't go over 100 after that **but** to prevent giving trial users a **rolling** storage of 100 items, the cap system picks clips **on or after** the **trial ends** which *may* make organizing your stuff pretty confusing, I get that but there's not much that can be done beyond the tip below...

:::tip Fresh slate
You can delete your storage at any time from *Settings->Preferences->System->Delete All Clips*
:::
