MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/collections/filters.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---
# Filters

Filter collections are stored searches that reflect results based on when they are clicked or *queried*.

:::tip Filter Refreshing
Even if a filter is already selected, clicking it again will refresh the results. This can be meaningful if the filter uses the present time as a criteria. (An example of a present time criteria can be seen by selecting and expanding the 'Recent' filter)
:::

There are 2 types of filters:
1. [Simple Search](#simple-search-filter)
2. [Advanced](#advanced-filters)

## Simple Search Filter
:::caution 
Simple search is limited to the current **active collection** (Group collections cannot be active). 
:::

:::tip
To search against all clips you need to select the **All** collection.
:::

Simple search is a quick or more general type of method to filter your clips. 

### In-Place search
There are 2 ways to reveal the simple search filter:
1. Click the 🔎 button in the top-right of the main window
2. Start typing at any time when the main window is active and no input control is in focus

:::tip Live-Search
Live-Search is an optional feature that can be enabled or disabled at anytime from the *Settings->Preferences->Search* menu
:::

### Simple Search Options
With the simple search filter expanded, options are available by clicking on the 🔎 icon.

The simple search options are broken up into 3 groups and will be used in conjunction with the text you type into the search box. The 3 groups are:
1. [Fields](#field-options)
2. [Formats](#format-options)
3. [Operations](#operation-options)

#### Field Options
The actual property of the clip, its source or meta-information on it (ie. Title or annotation) to compare with the search text enetered.

#### Format Options
The basic format of clips to include in the filter, being text,files or images.

:::caution
Be aware that format selection is **required** and attempting to de-select all 3 formats will reset the format group to default (all selected). Otherwise there would be no results 🙈.
:::

#### Operation Options
These are standard matching operations you can enable to further refine the results.

:::caution
Enabling *Regular Expression* will disable the other options. If you want to include case-sensitivity or whole-word matching that needs to be supplied in the provided expression.
:::

## Advanced Filters
Advanced filtering extends from some [simple filter](#simple-search-filter) which can be blank and includes all results from the default options. 

### Overview
Advanced filtering works by performing the provided filters in the **order they are listed**, always from the base-level simple search filter. The final output is the result of the provided [join operation](#join-operations) of some given filter against the results of the **last** filter. This flow is similar to a [feed-back loop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feedback) which can provide a wide-range of intuitive and meaningful results. 

### Creating Advanced Filters
There are a few way to create filters but here are the most common:

#### *Collections Sidebar*
1. Select 'Filters' or any '🗀 Group' collection within it from the *Collections* side-bar
2. Click or tap the ➕ plus button in the top right of the the *Collections* side-bar to reveal the *Add collection* pop-up menu
3. Select 'Filter'
4. A new Filter will be added to the bottom of the selected Collection.

#### Expanding a simple search 
1. [Create a simple search](#in-place-search)
2. Click the ➕ plus button to the right of the search box to reveaul the *advanced search panel*
3. Click the **Save** button at the top of the panel to save the filter to the root 'Filters' collection or selecting something else to discard

:::tip 
Changes to filters will only persist by clicking the **Save** button at the top of the *advanced search panel*.
:::

#### Duplicating 
With the *advanced search panel* open click the **Duplicate** button at the top of the panel to duplicate the filter. The new filter will be added to the root 'Filters' menu with the selected filters name and the suffix ' Copy'.

:::caution
The duplicated filter will be based on the last save version of the current filter
:::

:::tip
MonkeyPaste comes with a handful of read-only filters out-of-the-box ('All', 'Recent' and the 3 content formats under the 'Formats' group). To experiment with these, exapnd their advanced panel menu and duplicate to extend or alter the results.
:::

### Advanced Criteria Items
Each advanced criteria filter is row of the *advanced search panel*. That produces results like the the *simple search filter* but with a much broader range of clip and input properties to compare against.

#### Adding Criteria 
To add a new criteria filter, hover over any criteria in the *advanced search panel* and click the ➕ plus button that appears in the top-right of the item. The new item will be added below it.

:::tip Criteria Drag-and-drop
Criteria filters can be moved or duplicated (+<kbd>Control</kbd>) using the criteria drag handle on the left-side of the filter.
:::

#### Join Operations

##### Join Types

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```
There are 3 types of join operations available for criteria options.

:::note
***Or*** is the default type of criteria and the join type drop down menu is hidden when this is the current *join type*.
:::
```mdx-code-block
<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="abd" label="And ∩">
    Only results from the input and current criteria will be passed to the next item
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="or" label="Or ∪" default>
    All input results will be combined with current criteria and passed to the next item.

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="not" label="Not ⊄">
  Any results from the input that also in current criteria will be omitted
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

##### Changing the type
To change a criteria's join type, hover or select the criteria click the ⋮ 3 dots on top-right of the item to reveal the *criteria join type menu*.

Commit message:

Moved localized manifests into Resources/ dir cause there's gonna be so many and TRIED testing but the hidden local storage bug is getting worse or something...I can't get local storage to show up at all now and have no clue whats in the folder, it seems ok but need to get that figure out. Added a Google Lite translator plugin, basically just to test having a non-localized plugin to make sure everything resolves ok which i think it does...pretty annoying. Trying to delete temp files see if that fixes...Also began proof reading everything in the docs/website.

MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/collections/filters.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---
# Filters

Filters are stored searches and there's 2 types:
1. [Simple Search](#simple-search-filter)
2. [Advanced](#advanced-filters)

:::tip Filter Refreshing
Some filters use the current time (like the built-in **Today** *Filter*) and clicking the *Filter* again will refresh the results.
:::

## Simple Search Filter

Simple search is a quick or more general type of method to filter your clips. 

:::caution 
Simple search is limited to the current **active collection** (Group collections cannot be active). 
:::

:::tip
To search against all clips you need to select the **All** collection.
:::

### In-Place search
There are 2 ways to reveal the simple search filter:
1. Click the 🔎 button in the top-right of the main window
2. Start typing at any time when the main window is active and no input control is in focus

:::tip Live-Search
Live-Search is an optional feature that can be enabled or disabled at anytime from the *Settings->Preferences->Search* menu
:::

### Simple Search Options
With the simple search filter expanded, options are available by clicking on the 🔎 icon.

The simple search options are broken up into 3 groups and will be used in conjunction with the text you type into the search box. The 3 groups are:
1. [Fields](#field-options)
2. [Formats](#format-options)
3. [Operations](#operation-options)

#### Field Options
The actual property of the clip, its source or meta-information on it (ie. Title or annotation) to compare with the search text enetered.

#### Format Options
The basic format of clips to include in the filter, being text,files or images.

:::caution
Be aware that format selection is **required** and attempting to de-select all 3 formats will reset the format group to default (all selected). Otherwise there would be no results 🙈.
:::

#### Operation Options
These are standard matching operations you can enable to further refine the results.

:::caution
Enabling *Regular Expression* will disable the other options. If you want to include case-sensitivity or whole-word matching that needs to be supplied in the provided expression.
:::

## Advanced Filters
Advanced filtering extends from some [simple filter](#simple-search-filter) which can be blank and includes all results from the default options. 

### Overview
Advanced filtering works by performing the provided filters in the **order they are listed**, always from the base-level simple search filter. The final output is the result of the provided [join operation](#join-operations) of some given filter against the results of the **last** filter. This flow is similar to a [feed-back loop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feedback) which can provide a wide-range of intuitive and meaningful results. 

### Creating Advanced Filters
There are a few way to create filters but here are the most common:

#### *Collections Sidebar*
1. Select 'Filters' or any '🗀 Group' collection within it from the *Collections* side-bar
2. Click or tap the ➕ plus button in the top right of the the *Collections* side-bar to reveal the *Add collection* pop-up menu
3. Select 'Filter'
4. A new Filter will be added to the bottom of the selected Collection.

#### Expanding a simple search 
1. [Create a simple search](#in-place-search)
2. Click the ➕ plus button to the right of the search box to reveaul the *advanced search panel*
3. Click the **Save** button at the top of the panel to save the filter to the root 'Filters' collection or selecting something else to discard

:::tip 
Changes to filters will only persist by clicking the **Save** button at the top of the *advanced search panel*.
:::

#### Duplicating 
With the *advanced search panel* open click the **Duplicate** button at the top of the panel to duplicate the filter. The new filter will be added to the root 'Filters' menu with the selected filters name and the suffix ' Copy'.

:::caution
The duplicated filter will be based on the last save version of the current filter
:::

:::tip
MonkeyPaste comes with a handful of read-only filters out-of-the-box ('All', 'Recent' and the 3 content formats under the 'Formats' group). To experiment with these, exapnd their advanced panel menu and duplicate to extend or alter the results.
:::

### Advanced Criteria Items
Each advanced criteria filter is row of the *advanced search panel*. That produces results like the the *simple search filter* but with a much broader range of clip and input properties to compare against.

#### Adding Criteria 
To add a new criteria filter, hover over any criteria in the *advanced search panel* and click the ➕ plus button that appears in the top-right of the item. The new item will be added below it.

:::tip Criteria Drag-and-drop
Criteria filters can be moved or duplicated (+<kbd>Control</kbd>) using the criteria drag handle on the left-side of the filter.
:::

#### Join Operations

##### Join Types

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```
There are 3 types of join operations available for criteria options.

:::note
***Or*** is the default type of criteria and the join type drop down menu is hidden when this is the current *join type*.
:::
```mdx-code-block
<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="abd" label="And ∩">
    Only results from the input and current criteria will be passed to the next item
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="or" label="Or ∪" default>
    All input results will be combined with current criteria and passed to the next item.

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="not" label="Not ⊄">
  Any results from the input that also in current criteria will be omitted
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

##### Changing the type
To change a criteria's join type, hover or select the criteria click the ⋮ 3 dots on top-right of the item to reveal the *criteria join type menu*.

## Auto-Search
By default, if you aren't in a textbox typing any letter or number will automatically start typing your input into the search box. 

:::tip Search Preferences
Auto-search can also be disabled in *Settings->Preferences->Search* menu.
:::
