MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/triggers/index.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---
# Triggers & Actions

:::info
Check out the [Automated Image Tagging](../tips/automated-image-tagging.md) walkthrough for more insights into **Triggers** and **Actions**.
:::

## Triggers
By some manner or another, triggers are **events** that produce **clips** matching some criteria for the specific type of trigger.

Below you will find basic summaries of the triggers currently available.

|Name|Description|
|---|---|
|Clip Added|Triggered when a clip of the selected type is **added**|
|Clip Tagged|Triggered when a clip is **linked** to the selected **tag**|
|Folder Watcher|Triggered when the selected **folders** content **changes**.The output will be a **new clip** of the file or folder that has changed along with the type of change|
|Monkey Copy|Simulates a 'Copy' key combination in the active application so this triggers input will be whatever is selected. This allows you to have some unique action workflow in the background while still behaving like a 'Copy' command in the active application.|
|Shortcut|When the recorded shortcut is pressed at anytime with the current clipboard|

:::tip MonkeyCopy Example #1
if you have a text translation plugin available you can select some text, perform a Monkey Copy shortcut, translate the text with an 'Analyze' action and then use the translation in a 'Set Clipboard' action to seamless translate text
:::
:::tip MonkeyCopy Example #2
Or another example, you have a 'Dessert Receipes' collection and with a Monkey Copy trigger you can copy a receipe you like with the shortcut and it wil be automatically added to 'Dessert Receipes' by using a 'Classify' action.
:::

## Actions
Like triggers, actions have **inputs** and **outputs** which will always contain the **source clip** provider by the **trigger**. 

|Name|Description|
|---|---|
|Alert|Used for custom alerts to help keep you aware of long-running action chains. Also these can be handy to narrow down parent output data when configuring 'Conditional' actions. Alerts have no affect on their input.|
|Analyzer|Processes triggered content or previous action output using a selected plugin.|
|Application Command|Invokes an Application Action.|
|Classify|Input content is linked to the selected collection|
|Conditional|Parses content or previous action output for text. When text is found, the output is ranges where those conditions were met. When comparision fails, no subsequent actions will be evaluated.|
|Delay|Priarily used in conjunction with the 'Repeat' Action for polling remote sources or aid with long running operations.|
|File Writer|Saves input to the selected folder.|
|Repeater|Used for creating action loops or repetive tasks. When repeated, it will execute all children again with its original input. When using an interval without a repeat count, the trigger will need to be disabled and reenabled to halt the repeating. Can be useful for polling or web scraping automation.|
|Set Clipboard|Sets the clipboard to the input clip.|

### Last Output
Some actions add data to *chain of execution* which is referred to as **Last Output**. 

The output may be a **new clip** like from the [Qr Coder Plugin](https://github.com/monkeypaste/QrCoder) which generates a QR code based on its **source clip**. 

Or **Last Output** can be some type of **annotation** about the parent action's **input** which is the case for the [Image Annotator Plugin](https://www.github.com/monkeypaste/ImageAnnotator) that outputs formatted information about the objects that it detected.

Commit message:

There's more docs than I realized, still not done going through them...but about 2/3 done now. Added stuff trying to get window diagnostics to work on tooltips but no luck there. Cleaned up assign shortcut a bit for its screenshots, added a thing that spits out all the shortcuts as a markdown table. Also realized that Shortcut Trigger doesn't make any output and I don't think would have worked after changing stuff around so updated it to 'try' and pick some kinda input even if its not used. Pretty sure that nvidia pinvoke hack fixes the graphics bug! Haven't had it now for a couple days so that's awesome.

MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/triggers/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---
# Triggers & Actions

:::info Practical Example
Check out the [Automated Image Tagging](../tips/automated-image-tagging.md) walkthrough for more insights into **Triggers** and **Actions**.
:::

## Triggers
By some manner or another, triggers are **events** that produce **clips** matching some criteria for that specific type of trigger.

Below you will find basic summaries of the triggers currently available.

|Name|Description|
|---|---|
|Clip Added|Triggered when a clip of the selected type is **added** to the system in any way (clipboard, drag-and-drop, analyzer generated or duplicated).|
|Clip Tagged|Triggered when a clip is **linked** to the specified *Tag Collection*.|
|Folder Watcher|Triggered when the selected **folder**'s content **changes**. The output will be a **new** or **existing** (when the *Ignore Duplicates* preference is **enabled**) *File Clip* of the file or folder that has changed along with **the type of change** as its **[last output](#last-output)**.|
|***Monkey Copy***|Like a *Shortcut Trigger* but when the key combination is pressed, a 'Copy' event will be *simulated* in the active application so it **still works like copy** but then the chain of actions attached to the *Monkey Copy Trigger* will get executed in the background using the **simulated copy clipboard data** (see tips below for more info).|
|Shortcut|Triggered by a global shortcut you define. **If MonkeyPaste is active** it will *attempt* to use the selected clip (if there is one) as input. **Otherwise** it will *try* to use the clipboard as its input. <br/><br/>**Note:** a *Shortcut Trigger* will **still execute** if there is **no input** to keep it flexible (so it can be a macro trigger etc.) since its not a *data-driven event*.  |

:::tip MonkeyCopy Example #1 (one key translation)
If you hooked up some text translation analyzer->Set Clipboard action chain to a *Monkey Copy Trigger* then with **one key** it will copy some text you select, translate it then put the translation on the clipboard to paste where you need it.
:::
:::tip MonkeyCopy Example #2 (one key classify)
Let's say you have a 'Dessert Receipes' *Tag Collection* and you find a new receipe you like online. If you had a special 'Dessert Receipe' *Monkey Copy Trigger* shortcut you could just select the receipe text and type the shortcut then *automatically* add it to your 'Dessert Receipes' *Tag Collection* (by hooking a *Classify* action up to the *Monkey Copy Trigger*).
:::

## Actions
Actions always have **one** *input* and **some number** of *outputs* where it performs its action on the *input* and then passes the result to its children as its *output*.


|Name|Description|
|---|---|
|Alert| General purpose sound and/or system tray message alerts. *Alert action*'s have no affect on their input.|
|Analyzer|Processes its input clip using the assigned *Analyzer Preset*. |
|Application Command|Invokes the assigned application action. All *Application Command*'s are stateless and their input clip is **ignored**. |
|Classify|Links its input clip to the assigned *Tag Collection*.|
|Conditional|Performs a *text comparision* on the input clip or previous [action output](#last-output). When comparision fails (its not a match) **no child actions will be executed**. So it acts like a *logical gate*.|
|Delay|**(Experimental)** Primarily used in conjunction with the *Repeater Action* for polling remote sources or aid with long running operations.|
|File Writer|Saves input to the selected folder.|
|Repeater|**(Experimental)** Used for creating action loops or repetive tasks. When repeated, it will execute all children again with its original input. When using an interval without a repeat count, the trigger will need to be disabled and reenabled to halt the repeating. Can be useful for polling or web scraping automation.|
|Set Clipboard|Sets the clipboard to the input clip.|

:::danger be careful branching
There are ***no restrictions*** or any *scheduling system* in place for action chains (*yet*) and if you branch your chain (adding **more than one** child action to an action) you may get inconsistent results. After a branch there's no telling *when* some action will modify an input or *any guarentees* that some processing has completed on another branch. 
:::

### Last Output
Some actions add data to the *chain of execution* which is referred to as **Last Output**. 

The output may be a **new clip** like from the [Qr Coder Plugin](https://github.com/monkeypaste/QrCoder) which generates a QR code based on its **source clip**. 

Or **Last Output** can be some type of **annotation** about the parent action's **input** which is the case for the [Image Annotator Plugin](https://www.github.com/monkeypaste/ImageAnnotator) that outputs formatted information about the objects that it detected.
