MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/welcome.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Welcome 

Welcome to the documentation for MonkeyPaste, a clipboard automation and productivity tool. With MonkeyPaste, the clipboard becomes an enriched and organized asset in your workflow.

## Supported Platforms
- Windows 10 (version 1809) and higher

## Projected Platforms
- Linux 'Coming soonest' (not all but including Debian 9+, Ubuntu 16.04+, Fedora 30+)
- macOS 'Coming sooner' High Sierra 10.13 and higher
- ios 'Coming soon'
- Android 'Coming soon'

:::tip Linux will be $free$
As a nod to Linux and free-for-use software in general, MonkeyPaste will default to the *'Unlimited'* account plan **free of charge on all Linux desktop platforms.**
:::

:::info 
Global shortcut support on Linux is limited to [Passive-mode](shortcuts/index.md#route-types). More info on shortcuts [here](../docs/shortcuts/index.md)
:::


## Getting Help

If you encounter any issues or bugs with MonkeyPaste, please open a new issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/monkeypaste/monkeypaste-docs).

Commit message:

Moved localized manifests into Resources/ dir cause there's gonna be so many and TRIED testing but the hidden local storage bug is getting worse or something...I can't get local storage to show up at all now and have no clue whats in the folder, it seems ok but need to get that figure out. Added a Google Lite translator plugin, basically just to test having a non-localized plugin to make sure everything resolves ok which i think it does...pretty annoying. Trying to delete temp files see if that fixes...Also began proof reading everything in the docs/website.

MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/welcome.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Welcome 

Welcome to the docs for MonkeyPaste, a clipboard automation and productivity tool. 

Here you will find details about how to use the app **beyond the intergrated help** which is found by hovering over any of the <img src={require('/img/info.png').default} width="15"/> icons.

## Supported Platforms
- Windows 10 (version 1809) and higher

## Projected Platforms
- Linux 'Coming soonest' (not all but including Debian 9+, Ubuntu 16.04+, Fedora 30+)
- macOS 'Coming sooner' High Sierra 10.13 and higher
- ios 'Coming soon'
- Android 'Coming soon'

:::tip Linux will be 100% free
As a nod to Linux and free-for-use software in general, MonkeyPaste will default to the *'Unlimited'* account plan **free of charge on all Linux desktop platforms.**
:::

:::info 
Global shortcut support on Linux is limited to [Passive-mode](shortcuts/index.md#route-types). More info on shortcuts [here](../docs/shortcuts/index.md)
:::


## Getting Help

If you encounter any issues or bugs with MonkeyPaste, please open a new issue in the at [Issues](https://monkeypaste.com/forum/index.php?board=6.0) or [Bugs](https://monkeypaste.com/forum/index.php?board=5.0) respectively.
