MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/plugins/index.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---
# Plugins

There are 2 types of plugins that MonkeyPaste currently supports:
1. [OLE](#ole)
2. [Analyzers](#analyzers)

## OLE
OLE (or object linking and embedding) is a general term used here to describe both clipboard and drag-and-drop interaction. OLE plugins come with some set of read and/or write data formats that it is designed to interpret. 

:::info
All of MonkeyPaste's core platform integration is handled through the *Core Clipboard* plugin.
:::

## Analyzers
Analyzers open many powerful and interesting doorways to enhancing your clipboard and workflows between different applications. As their name implies, they analyze a clip's content and/or properties to create some type of useful output. 

Analyzer output can be new, generated content or meta-information about the input clip. For example translating a clip of text would create a new clip of that translation. Or running image analysis on a picture will provide a set of annotations for the picture, be it regions of interest or general information about the image that is *dependant* on the source clip. MonkeyPaste calls that information an *annotation*.

### Annotations


 
## Plugin Browser
The *plugin browser* can be accessed from the *analyzer sidebar* by click the 🧩 button found to the right of the *analzyer selector* drop-down.

Commit message:

More doc edits, screenshots and 'tried' using a carousel thing for the homepage but it sucked. I did separate out the features section from the my added parts though. Also added a 'ClearPinTray' shortcut and fixed a bug where exapanded adv search wasn't auto updating to tag selection change w/o toggling expanded.

MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/plugins/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---
# Plugins

There are 2 types of plugins that MonkeyPaste currently supports:
1. [Analyzers](#analyzers)
2. [Clipboard](#clipboard)


## Analyzers
As their name implies, *Analyzers* analyze a clip's content or some set of the clips properties to create some type of useful output by *generating* new content or *annotating* its input content (always a clip).

For example translating the language of a text clip (like with the ['Google Lite Text Translator'](https://github.com/monkeypaste/GoogleLiteTextTranslator) plugin) will *generate* a new clip for that translation. Or running image analysis (like with the ['Image Annotator'](https://github.com/monkeypaste/ImageAnnotator) plugin) on a picture will *annotate* that picture with information about regions of interest or detected objects in that image. This information is *dependant* on the source clip. MonkeyPaste calls that information an *annotation*.

:::info Source Tracking
Under the covers, MonkeyPaste keeps a history of **all** its plugin interaction and connections for source->generated content as well as the specific settings that were used everytime an analyzer is executed. 

*Some* of this information is available in the *Clip Context-menu->Sources* sub-menu but there can be **a lot more** tracked then what you currently can see. Its just is filtered out because its not immediatly useful *yet*. This will change in future releases.
:::

## Clipboard
:::info Plugin Driven
All of MonkeyPaste's core platform integration is handled through the *Core Clipboard* plugin.
:::

Clipboard plugins are used for both clipboard *and* drag-and-drop read/write operations. Each clipboard will have a set of **formats** that it can handle for reading, writing or both. 

Each format a clipboard plugin can handle is basically its own *Analyzer* plugin, it will have its own parameters and presets. Unlike *Analyzer* plugins however, *Clipboard format* presets can be enabled or disabled for general (default) or application specific clipboard operations.

:::tip More Info
Check out the [VS Code Setup walkthrough](docs/tips/custom-write-setup-w-vscode.md) for a practical example of using *Clipboard format* presets
:::
 
## Plugin Browser
<p class="figure" align="left">
  <img src={require('/img/plugin_browser_button.png').default} width="300"/>  
</p>  
The *plugin browser* can be accessed from the *analyzer sidebar* by click the 🧩 button found to the right of the *analzyer selector* drop-down.
