MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/tips/automated-image-tagging.md, before:

# Automated Tagging with Triggers and Plugins
Do you want a way to *automatically* tag the things you copy into organized groups so you can *use* them later?!?
Well *this* tip is for you then!

<p align="center">
  <video controls height="300">
    <source src="/docs/build/videos/auto_tagging.mkv"/>
  </video>
</p>

We'll use the [Image Annotator Plugin](https://www.github.com/monkeypaste/ImageAnnotator) available for download from the *Plugin Browser* to detect cats or dogs in images we copy and automatically tag them to cooresponding 'Cats' and 'Dogs' collections!

:::info What's it do?
The [Image Annotator Plugin](https://www.github.com/monkeypaste/ImageAnnotator) detects common objects in images and provides a name, box and score (between 0 and 1 of how sure it is about the name) for each object it detects. 
:::

:::tip Annotation Viewer
To see detailed information about *image annotations* **double-click** the analyzed image and then **double-click** the annotation to bring up the *annotation viewer* 
<p><img class="figure" src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_annotations_view.png" /></p>
:::


Here's how:

## Creating the Tags
1. Open the *Collections* sidebar and select the top-level *Tags* collection.
2. You'll now see a ➕ button in the top-left of the sidebar. Click the ➕ button to add a new tag.
3. A new tag named 'Untitled' will be added to the bottom of the list, right-click it and select *Rename* and change its name to 'Cats'.
4. Repeat steps #2-3 but make a 'Dogs' tag.
<p><img class="figure narrow" src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_tag_setup.png" /></p>
:::tip Nesting & Grouping
Tags can be nested. If you added a 'Pets' tag and drag-and-dropped the 'Cats' and 'Dogs' tags we just made into it, then all the clips within them will become *implicitly* linked to 'Pets' and shown when 'Pets' is selected.
:::

## Adding the Image Annotator Plugin
1. Open the *Analyzer* sidebar and click the 🧩 button to reveal the *Plugin Browser*
2. Type 'Image Annotator' into the search box then select the *Browse* tab
3. Select 'Image Annotator' in the left pane and click the *Install* button from the right pane.
4. After a moment the plugin will be installed and ready for use.
<p><img class="figure" src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_plugin_browser.png" /></p>

## Trigger Setup
1. Now open the *Triggers* sidebar click the ➕ button on the top-right of the sidebar to show the *Create Trigger* menu
2. Select the *Clip Added* trigger to create the new trigger
3. If its not automatically selected, select the 'Clip Added Trigger' from the *Trigger Selector* below the ➕ button
4. Scroll down to show the *Action Properties* view and click the 'Clip Added Trigger' label and rename it 'Image Copied Trigger'.
5. Then below in the properties, select 'Image' for the **Trigger** parameter since for this example we want to tag pictures of cats and dogs.
<p><img class="figure narrow" src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_trig_props.png" /></p>
:::tip Integrated Help
All triggers, actions and their parameters have hints (little blue ℹ️ icons) to help you get familiar with using them.
:::
## Add the ImageAnnotator Action
1. We need a way to run the 'Image Annotator' plugin we just installed. To do this we add an *Analyze* action to the 'Image Copied Trigger' by right-clicking the green circle on right in the *Action Designer* view and selecting *Add->Analyze* from the *Add Action* pop-menu.
2. The new 'Analyze1' action will become selected and shown with an arrow pointing to it from the 'Image Copied Trigger'
3. Let's rename it to 'Analyze Image Objects' back in *Action Properties*
4. Now to use the Image Annotator, click the *Component Selector* for the **Analyzer** parameter and select *Image Annotator->Default Annotator*.
5. Finally we'll set the **Confidence** *parameter* to 0.5 using the slider. This will help filter out false-postives from annotator.
<p><img class="figure narrow" src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_ann_props.png" /></p>
:::tip Plugin Presets
Analyzer *parameters* are stored using presets so you can re-use certain configurations later. All plugins will have at least 1 default preset (which is what we just picked from the *Component Selector*). You can add new presets at anytime by clicking the *Add Preset* button at the bottom of the *Analyzer* sidebar. 
:::

## Using Conditional Actions
To recap, we setup a trigger so when any *Image* is **added** it will then be **analyzed** by the *Image Annotator* which (among other things) **outputs** a list of the objects it detected. We only care about output containing the *words* 'Cat' or 'Dog'. This is what *Conditional* actions are for! 

When the condition is **true**, execution continues. When the condition is **false**, no actions stemming from a *Condtional* action will be performed.
1. Right-click the 'Analyze Image Objects' square in the *Action Designer* and select the *Add->Conditional* option and a new **Conditional** diamond will be added as a child to 'Analyze Image Objects'.
2. Now select the *Conditional* action diamond and lets rename it to 'Has Cats?'
3. Finally, set **Condition Data** to 'cat' in the textbox. <p><img src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_cat_cond.png" class="figure narrow"/></p>
4. Since this condition is based on the 'Analyze Image Object' output, set **Input Property** to *Last Output* (more info on *Last Output* can be found [here](../triggers/index.md#last-output))
5. Repeat steps **1-4** by adding a 'Has Dogs?' *Conditional* action with its **Condition Data** parameter set to 'dog'. <p><img src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_dog_cond.png" class="figure narrow"/></p>
:::tip
You can also **Copy** and **Paste** the 'Has Cats?' action and change what we need for **Step 4** too.
:::

:::info Designer Shapes
The shapes for triggers and actions can help you understand how they work. 
- *Triggers* are **circles** and only have input from a *trigger event*. 
- *Condtional* actions are **diamonds** and their *condition* must evaluate to **true** for their child actions to **continue**.
- *All other* actions are squares and will always pass their **input** (with the result of their action) as **output** to their child actions.
:::

## Tagging Clips with Classifiers
The last piece of this puzzle is using the **Classify** action which *automates* adding a clip to a specific **Tag**.
1. Right-click the 'Has Cats?' diamond and select the *Add->Classify* option and a new **Classify** square will be added as a child to 'Has Cats?'
2. Select it and rename it to 'Tag to Cats'.
3. Now click the dropdown for the **Tag** parameter and select the 'Cats' tag we made earlier.<p><img src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_cat_class_props.png" class="figure narrow"/></p>
4. Repeat (or copy/paste) steps **1-3** but from the 'Has Dogs?' *Condtional* action.<p><img src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_cat_class_props.png" class="figure narrow"/></p>

You should something like below in the *Action Designer*:

<p><img class="figure" src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_complete_designer.png" /></p>


## Let's try it out!
Copy the images below and check the 'Cats' and 'Dogs' tags to see the results.

:::tip External Content Drag-and-Drop 
By default you can drag any text or image to the **top of your screen** to reveal MonkeyPaste so you can *easily* **drop** content on:
1. The *Pin Tray* to **add** it new clip
2. Any *Tag* **Collection** to **link** it to that tag and **add** it as a new clip.
3. Any **Action** or **Trigger** to add the new clip but also *run* that action and its subsequent *chain of execution*.
:::

:::tip Tag-to-Action Drag-and-Drop 
You can also drop *any* **Collection** onto *any* **Action** to perform *batch processing* on **all** clips found for that tag! 🤓
:::

|Example Images| |
|---|---|
|<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/2/25/Siam_lilacpoint.jpg/294px-Siam_lilacpoint.jpg" width="100"/> |<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/15/Cat_August_2010-4.jpg/362px-Cat_August_2010-4.jpg"  width="100"/>|
|<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/c8/Black_Labrador_Retriever_-_Male_IMG_3323.jpg/202px-Black_Labrador_Retriever_-_Male_IMG_3323.jpg" width="100"/> |<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/7a/Huskiesatrest.jpg/290px-Huskiesatrest.jpg"  width="100"/>|<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/9/9b/Chin_posing.jpg/146px-Chin_posing.jpg" width="100"/> |
|<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/79/Trillium_Poncho_cat_dog.jpg/440px-Trillium_Poncho_cat_dog.jpg" width="100"/> |<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/5/57/Octopus2.jpg/440px-Octopus2.jpg" width="100"/> |
### Observations

The **last row** of the example images will have some interesting results:
1. The first image has **both** a cat and a dog which means **both** ***Conditional*** actions were **true**.
2. The last image doesn't have any cats **or** dogs so *neither* **Conditional** actions were true they were both **false**.

:::info Background
The [Image Annotator Plugin](https://www.github.com/monkeypaste/ImageAnnotator) is a simple wrapper to [YoloV8](https://yolov8.com/#:~:text=What%20is%20YOLOv8%3F,as%20a%20command%20line%20interface.). With a *very* tiny model ( ~16mbs!) trained on **80** unique objects to keep  it fast and lightweight. 

If you want to add **MORE** objects (so it can find rabbits and octopi let's say) feel free to fork the [Image Annotator Plugin](https://www.github.com/monkeypaste/ImageAnnotator) repositiory and [make your own custom analyzer!!!🤓](../plugins/plugin-development.md)
:::

:::tip
To get a much detailed analysis you can use the [Computer Vision](https://www.github.com/monkeypaste/ComputerVision) plugin for the 'Analyze Image Objects' analyzer described. 
* Requires an [Azure Cognitive Services API key](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/ai-services/)
:::

Commit message:

Narrowed down plugin unload issue i think at least, its just the unload component, when that's gone they seem to unload fine, will def need to test more cause its intermittent. Added hack/fix for big tooltips so it moves the tooltip towards the center of screen until its not under the mouse which fixes the pressing probs, probably isn't perfect but does work. Spent most of the day though creating 7 new repos for the plugins i'm releasing w/ launch. Also added readmes for each and a special Ledger repo/project and a Ledgerizer console app that does the thing for ledger so its just the file in the project. Looks like all the images are loading

MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/tips/automated-image-tagging.md, after:

# Automated Tagging with Triggers and Plugins
Do you want a way to *automatically* tag the things you copy into organized groups so you can *use* them later?!?
Well *this* tip is for you then!

<p align="center">
  <video controls height="300">
    <source src="/docs/build/videos/auto_tagging.mkv"/>
  </video>
</p>

We'll use the [Image Annotator Plugin](https://www.github.com/monkeypaste/ImageAnnotator) available for download from the *Plugin Browser* to detect cats or dogs in images we copy and automatically tag them to cooresponding 'Cats' and 'Dogs' collections!

:::info What's it do?
The [Image Annotator Plugin](https://www.github.com/monkeypaste/ImageAnnotator) detects common objects in images and provides a name, box and score (between 0 and 1 of how sure it is about the name) for each object it detects. 
:::

:::tip Annotation Viewer
To see detailed information about *image annotations* **double-click** the analyzed image to **see** its annotations and then **double-click** an annotation to bring up the *annotation viewer* 
<p><img class="figure" src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_annotations_view.png" /></p>
You can Check out the [Computer Vision](https://www.github.com/monkeypaste/ComputerVision) plugin to get much more detailed annotations.
:::


Here's how:

## Creating the Tags
1. Open the *Collections* sidebar and select the top-level *Tags* collection.
2. You'll now see a ➕ button in the top-left of the sidebar. Click the ➕ button to add a new tag.
3. A new tag named 'Untitled' will be added to the bottom of the list, right-click it and select *Rename* and change its name to 'Cats'.
4. Repeat steps #2-3 but make a 'Dogs' tag.
<p><img class="figure narrow" src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_tag_setup.png" /></p>
:::tip Nesting & Grouping
Tags can be nested. If you added a 'Pets' tag and drag-and-dropped the 'Cats' and 'Dogs' tags we just made into it, then all the clips within them will become *implicitly* linked to 'Pets' and shown when 'Pets' is selected.
:::

## Adding the Image Annotator Plugin
1. Open the *Analyzer* sidebar and click the 🧩 button to reveal the *Plugin Browser*
2. Type 'Image Annotator' into the search box then select the *Browse* tab
3. Select 'Image Annotator' in the left pane and click the *Install* button from the right pane.
4. After a moment the plugin will be installed and ready for use.
<p><img class="figure" src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_plugin_browser.png" /></p>

## Trigger Setup
1. Now open the *Triggers* sidebar click the ➕ button on the top-right of the sidebar to show the *Create Trigger* menu
2. Select the *Clip Added* trigger to create the new trigger
3. If its not automatically selected, select the 'Clip Added Trigger' from the *Trigger Selector* below the ➕ button
4. Scroll down to show the *Action Properties* view and click the 'Clip Added Trigger' label and rename it 'Image Copied Trigger'.
5. Then below in the properties, select 'Image' for the **Trigger** parameter since for this example we want to tag pictures of cats and dogs.
<p><img class="figure narrow" src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_trig_props.png" /></p>
:::tip Integrated Help
All triggers, actions and their parameters have hints (little blue ℹ️ icons) to help you get familiar with using them.
:::
## Add the ImageAnnotator Action
1. We need a way to run the 'Image Annotator' plugin we just installed. To do this we add an *Analyze* action to the 'Image Copied Trigger' by right-clicking the green circle on right in the *Action Designer* view and selecting *Add->Analyze* from the *Add Action* pop-menu.
2. The new 'Analyze1' action will become selected and shown with an arrow pointing to it from the 'Image Copied Trigger'
3. Let's rename it to 'Analyze Image Objects' back in *Action Properties*
4. Now to use the Image Annotator, click the *Component Selector* for the **Analyzer** parameter and select *Image Annotator->Default Annotator*.
5. Finally we'll set the **Confidence** *parameter* to 0.5 using the slider. This will help filter out false-postives from annotator.
<p><img class="figure narrow" src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_ann_props.png" /></p>
:::tip Plugin Presets
Analyzer *parameters* are stored using presets so you can re-use certain configurations later. All plugins will have at least 1 default preset (which is what we just picked from the *Component Selector*). You can add new presets at anytime by clicking the *Add Preset* button at the bottom of the *Analyzer* sidebar. 
:::

## Using Conditional Actions
To recap, we setup a trigger so when any *Image* is **added** it will then be **analyzed** by the *Image Annotator* which (among other things) **outputs** a list of the objects it detected. We only care about output containing the *words* 'Cat' or 'Dog'. This is what *Conditional* actions are for! 

When the condition is **true**, execution continues. When the condition is **false**, no actions stemming from a *Condtional* action will be performed.
1. Right-click the 'Analyze Image Objects' square in the *Action Designer* and select the *Add->Conditional* option and a new **Conditional** diamond will be added as a child to 'Analyze Image Objects'.
2. Now select the *Conditional* action diamond and lets rename it to 'Has Cats?'
3. Finally, set **Condition Data** to 'cat' in the textbox. <p><img src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_cat_cond.png" class="figure narrow"/></p>
4. Since this condition is based on the 'Analyze Image Object' output, set **Input Property** to *Last Output* (more info on *Last Output* can be found [here](../triggers/index.md#last-output))
5. Repeat steps **1-4** by adding a 'Has Dogs?' *Conditional* action with its **Condition Data** parameter set to 'dog'. <p><img src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_dog_cond.png" class="figure narrow"/></p>
:::tip
You can also **Copy** and **Paste** the 'Has Cats?' action and change what we need for **Step 4** too.
:::

:::info Designer Shapes
The shapes for triggers and actions can help you understand how they work. 
- *Triggers* are **circles** and only have input from a *trigger event*. 
- *Condtional* actions are **diamonds** and their *condition* must evaluate to **true** for their child actions to **continue**.
- *All other* actions are squares and will always pass their **input** (with the result of their action) as **output** to their child actions.
:::

## Tagging Clips with Classifiers
The last piece of this puzzle is using the **Classify** action which *automates* adding a clip to a specific **Tag**.
1. Right-click the 'Has Cats?' diamond and select the *Add->Classify* option and a new **Classify** square will be added as a child to 'Has Cats?'
2. Select it and rename it to 'Tag to Cats'.
3. Now click the dropdown for the **Tag** parameter and select the 'Cats' tag we made earlier.<p><img src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_cat_class_props.png" class="figure narrow"/></p>
4. Repeat (or copy/paste) steps **1-3** but from the 'Has Dogs?' *Condtional* action.<p><img src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_cat_class_props.png" class="figure narrow"/></p>

You should something like below in the *Action Designer*:

<p><img class="figure" src="/docs/build/img/auto_tag_complete_designer.png" onclick="window.open(this.src)" style={{cursor: "pointer"}} /></p>


## Let's try it out!
Copy the images below and check the 'Cats' and 'Dogs' tags to see the results.

:::tip External Content Drag-and-Drop 
By default you can drag any text or image to the **top of your screen** to reveal MonkeyPaste so you can *easily* **drop** content on:
1. The *Pin Tray* to **add** it new clip
2. Any *Tag* **Collection** to **link** it to that tag and **add** it as a new clip.
3. Any **Action** or **Trigger** to add the new clip but also *run* that action and its subsequent *chain of execution*.
:::

:::tip Tag-to-Action Drag-and-Drop 
You can also drop *any* **Collection** onto *any* **Action** to perform *batch processing* on **all** clips found for that tag! 🤓
:::

|Example Images| |
|---|---|
|<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/2/25/Siam_lilacpoint.jpg/294px-Siam_lilacpoint.jpg" width="100"/> |<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/15/Cat_August_2010-4.jpg/362px-Cat_August_2010-4.jpg"  width="100"/>|
|<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/c8/Black_Labrador_Retriever_-_Male_IMG_3323.jpg/202px-Black_Labrador_Retriever_-_Male_IMG_3323.jpg" width="100"/> |<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/7a/Huskiesatrest.jpg/290px-Huskiesatrest.jpg"  width="100"/>|<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/9/9b/Chin_posing.jpg/146px-Chin_posing.jpg" width="100"/> |
|<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/79/Trillium_Poncho_cat_dog.jpg/440px-Trillium_Poncho_cat_dog.jpg" width="100"/> |<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/5/57/Octopus2.jpg/440px-Octopus2.jpg" width="100"/> |
### Observations

The **last row** of the example images will have some interesting results:
1. The first image has **both** a cat and a dog which means **both** ***Conditional*** actions were **true**.
2. The last image doesn't have any cats **or** dogs so *neither* **Conditional** actions were true they were both **false**.

:::info Background
The [Image Annotator Plugin](https://www.github.com/monkeypaste/ImageAnnotator) is a simple wrapper to [YoloV8](https://yolov8.com/#:~:text=What%20is%20YOLOv8%3F,as%20a%20command%20line%20interface.). With a *very* tiny model ( ~16mbs!) trained on **80** unique objects to keep  it fast and lightweight. 

If you want to add **MORE** objects (so it can find rabbits and octopi let's say) feel free to fork the [Image Annotator Plugin](https://www.github.com/monkeypaste/ImageAnnotator) repositiory and [make your own custom analyzer!!!🤓](../plugins/plugin-development.md)
:::

:::tip
To get a much detailed analysis you can use the [Computer Vision](https://www.github.com/monkeypaste/ComputerVision) plugin for the 'Analyze Image Objects' analyzer described. 
* Requires an [Azure Cognitive Services API key](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/ai-services/)
:::
