MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/tips/free-suggestions.md, before:

# Free Account Tips

By default with a free account, this clip capacity stuff can get pretty frustrating but there's a few settings that can help make that restrictions a bit more *user-friendly*.

## On-Demand clipboard listening

By pausing the clipboard listener, *System Tray->Pause* a 🎯 icon will appear in the top-right of the *Pin Tray* when there is something **new** on the clipboard. 
<p><img class="figure narrow" src={require('/img/free_acct_sug_bullseye_btn.png').default} /></p>

:::tip 
You can uncheck *Settings->Preferences->Listen To Clipboard On Startup* to **always** have the clipboard listener be paused.
:::

Now the ***only*** time MonkeyPaste will read the clipboard is when you click the 🎯 button.

## Capacity Hints & Watermarks

- Capacity notifications can be permanently hidden from the 3 dots menu 
- Cap clip watermark warnings can be hidden by checking *Settings->Preferences->Hide Capacity Watermarks*

## Transitioning from free-trial

If you tried the *Unlimited* plan and didn't decide to pay for it (you *dirty dog you*) you'll probably have a fair amount of entries stored up. To keep this monetization method afloat the cap system **ensures things added to your storage with the paid plan aren not lost**. 

So let's say you had 100 clips at the end of trial. Your capacity won't go over 100 after that **but** to prevent giving trial users a **rolling** storage of 100 items, the cap system picks clips **on or after** the **trial ends** which *may* make organizing your stuff pretty confusing, I get that but there's not much that can be done beyond the tip below...

:::tip Fresh slate
You can delete your storage at any time from *Settings->Preferences->System->Delete All Clips*
:::

Commit message:

Tested all the content queries in an alert action and found that only content was working so went through and fixed a number of missed bugs with querying and action clipboard canexecute commands. Also added {ItemRawData} which keeps it a little looser instead of forcing that to be dependant on the parameter controls unit type so they both work, not getting rid of the unit stuff. Broke most of the 'system' pref buttons out into their actual groups  too. Added dnd docs page and FINISHED finishing touches on all that. Added an empty append section but thats fine no more for now.

MonkeyPaste.com/public_html/docs/docs/tips/free-suggestions.md, after:

# Free Account Tips

There's a few settings designed to help make the *Free-to-use* mode a bit more user-friendly but they aren't enabled by default. They are described below.

## On-Demand clipboard listening

By pausing the clipboard listener (by clicking *System Tray->Pause* or <kbd>Control</kbd><kbd>Shift</kbd><kbd>F1</kbd>) a 🎯 icon will appear in the top-right of the *Pin Tray* **when there is something** ***new*** on the clipboard. 
<p><img class="figure narrow" src={require('/img/free_acct_sug_bullseye_btn.png').default} /></p>

:::tip Set it in stone
If you like keeping the *Clipboard Listener* paused, you can uncheck *Settings->Preferences->Listen To Clipboard On Startup* to avoid having to pause it everytime you use MonkeyPaste.
:::

Now the ***only*** time MonkeyPaste will read the clipboard is when you click the 🎯 button or the <kbd>Control</kbd><kbd>Shift</kbd><kbd>F9</kbd> global shortcut.

## Capacity Hints & Watermarks

- Capacity notifications can be permanently hidden from the 3 dots menu 
- Cap clip watermark warnings can be hidden by checking *Settings->Preferences->Hide Capacity Watermarks*

## Transitioning from a free-trial

If you tried the *Unlimited* plan and decided not to pay for it you'll probably have a fair amount of entries stored up. To keep this monetization method afloat the cap system **ensures things added to your storage with the** ***paid plan*** **are not lost to recycling**. 

So let's say you had 100 clips at the end of the trial. Then your capacity won't *ever* go over 100 after that, **but** to prevent giving trial users a **rolling** storage of 100 items, the cap system picks clips **on or after the trial ends** which *may* make organizing your stuff pretty confusing, I get that but there's not much that can be done beyond the tip below...

:::tip Clean slate
You can delete your storage at any time from *Settings->Preferences->System->Delete All Clips*
:::
